after 7 Days of air strikes Israel's
bombardment of the Gaza Strip has killed
at least 2,200 Palestinians and wounded
more than 8,000 it's been a week since
Hamas launched its unprecedented
military operation by land air and sea
against Israel 1300 Israelis have been
killed including foreign
Nationals well graphic images have
emerged showing the moment an strike hit
one vehicle where a young girl was being
treated the warning viewers may find the
following footage
[Music]
distressing yes the Palestinian Health
Ministry says ambulances have come under
direct and systematic attacks in
violation of international law it says
23 ambulances and 15 medical facilities
have been hit 15 health workers have
been killed
this is Northern Gaza which is home to
the jabala refugee camp it is the
largest in the strip and 116,000 people
live there the shatti refugee camp is
one of gaza's most crowded it's also in
the north along with a large number of
un facilities and hospitals that include
the enclave's largest the AL shifer
Hospital Israel wants all those in
hospitals treating injured patients and
Sheltering displaced families to be
evacuated to the south of body Gaza but
with so many displaced Palestinians
fleeing to Southern Gaza the conditions
there of course are pretty
dire car Unice in southern gazra is one
of the places where people in the north
have been told to head for but Israeli
air strikes have been pounding
residential buildings there too at least
one Palestinian was killed and several
injured in an attack just hours
ago well joining us on the phone now
from Gaza from K yunas in fact is our
correspondent yide uh she's in that's in
car unit say in South Gaza so yum just
give us an impression of of first of all
the journey that you made to the South
and now you're there what are the scenes
what's
happening well Nick the journey wasn't
easy at all I mean um we knew that we
have to get out of our homes under
bombardment with our kids we we knew
that it wasn't even uh safe to get to
unit as we were ordered because the B
hadn't stopped at all the bombardment
was ongoing in Gaza City it was ongoing
in the north it was ongoing in the South
so we were basically driving under
bombardment yesterday when I evacuated a
couple hours later two cars civilian
cars were also bombarded while they were
evacuating uh evacuating South while now
uh the the couple of hours that the
Israeli military G gave to the people of
the north andaza city over a million
people to evacuate were of course not
easy especially that people had to check
which routs uh to take and which roads
to drive in and which streets to go into
streets that were not bombarded yet and
streets that were uh relatively safe
from uh safe from bombardment so it did
take us a lot of time to get to drive
all the way from Gaza City uh till uh
Kan yunes we made this here safely but
uh there's thousands more who are still
trying to take the STP to come to hunis
uh these hours also the morning hours
have witnessed a lot of people trying to
evacuate from the North End of the city
because of the heavy bombardment in
these areas but also the bombardment
hasn't stopped in central Gaza and in
the South as well Nick just like you
said uh hours ago uh a home was still
bombarded here in in in the South but
let me just give you the latest update
about the bombardment casualties in the
past half an hour in the past half an
hour we have a home that was bombarded
for a ran family in the North End of
Gaza City and then we have also uh in in
in another home that was bombarded in
the central Gaza City in there balah and
dozens of injuries have uh uh resulted
from that bombardment while the Ministry
of Health is saying that uh there are
dozens of casualties between killed and
injured in another massacre in the
central part of Gaza City in a
residential uh uh residential
neighborhood so the bombardment is still
ongoing while the threat and the warning
of the evacuation is also still ongoing
Nick of course it is you've had to flee
south of course while doing your job as
a journalist and yet your experience s
like everybody else there the depth of
the of this challenge of going
evacuating South looking after your
family while you're doing it and it's
tough enough for adults what about the
children right what do you even tell
them it's very tough for the children
make I mean having to take the children
like that very early in the morning and
and barely taking anything like we we
just took Necessities with us um little
food that we could spare uh some bread
some little food that we could take from
our fridges because we don't want
anything to spoil some clothes that we
were able to take but them leaving here
leaving their home like that in such te
horror under the bombardment and and
coming even here we're talking about now
the Gaza Strip a place without without
electricity without uh water without
internet how how like how difficult can
it be for adults how how how how
terrible is it for the the the young
ones and the and the kids to to live in
such a a place now and and there's an
acate shortage of food and supplies
everywhere so it's not like we can buy
them everything they want or whatever
they want there's a shortage of
everything living under really really
difficult humanitarian conditions now is
the entire population of the god strip
Nick yna thanks for that update there
from KH Yunis in the south of Gaza yumna
Els our
reporter let's speak to another one of
our reporters also in Gaza safwat Al
kalut safat I understand you have an
update for
us yes uh I uh I was just talking to one
Palestinians are holding a foreign
nationality in Gaza uh they he told me
that uh last night they received emails
from
their uh he he he confirmed to me that
uh uh all the foreign nationalities in
Gaza including Europeans Canadians
Americans and even Chinese they were
informed about a new Arrangement that
their embassies or the ministry their
foreign Ministries uh arrange with the
Israeli foreign Ministry to allow the
foreigners in Gaza I'm talking about
Palestinians also who carry who carry
hold foreign nationalities uh that they
can leave the G between uh midday today
g g time which is uh 8 GMT timing until
uh 11 GMT so they have like three or
four hours to leave the crossing uh they
the the guy or the the friend he told me
that when they arrive to the crossing
they informed that the arrangement has
been uh has been cancelled and they are
waiting for new uh
instructions uh from their government or
from their foreign Ministries uh he told
me that the way to reach ra Crossing was
not easy and that they have received
special coordinates that were provided
by uh Israeli army or that they have to
follow special coordinates a special
path to avoid uh direct targeting by the
Israeli Army and sa as you report that
news uh you you also have made the
journey down to kanun what is your
experience experience being
there look as uh as you know I I managed
to uh to reach the south of the Gaza
Strip or specifically Central area which
is very attached to the South uh more or
one 1 Hour 1 hour and a half ago there
was a heavy shooting or heavy
bombardment and then we realized that
the target was a house uh the the
ministry ambulances rush we I could hear
them from where I'm staying uh then we
realized that the the the target was a
family and they're Waring the the the
the residence of the family there so
that there are casualties at least three
dead and seven other injured some of
them are in critical condition the
ambulances are still there trying to
pick up or to grab some of the barriers
of the of the
casualties all right we'll leave that
for the time being thanks very
much a reporting from KH unit in
Gaza well Hamas has fired more Rockets
from Gaza into Southern Israel this was
the scene in the city of ashalon after
Rockets struck some areas uh there are
no reports of casualties let's bring in
Stephanie Decker who's in ashalon and
Southern Israel close to the Border uh
with Gaza so Steph where you are tell us
what the situation is and what's
happening around three heavy barrages of
rockets since we arrived here about two
hours ago one as we we were driving into
the city another one and then just in
the last 45 minutes or so a very heavy
barrage we went into the bomb shelter
which is uh something that is all across
the cities uh along the border that
Israelis have access to and there were
multiple interceptions right over our
heads the bomb shelter shook six or
seven uh interceptions this is a city
that has been heavily targeted by um by
rocket fire you can see some of the uh
the impact that it's had here over the
last uh five or six days or so um Marina
can show you across the way and then
here as well at the top of this
Residential Building um there was a hit
uh and more particularly in this area
more impacts now a lot of people remain
here they tell us that they don't want
to leave they want to remain in their
homes one man we spoke to said you know
if I could guarantee that my family was
safe I would take up a gun uh and join
the fight but I I can't do that uh the
people on on this side of the Border
Nick are are in Shock H at what happened
at the attack by Hamas the fact that
their military uh couldn't uh protect
them for so long so it's the people are
completely in shock and they're very
much behind this military offensive they
are very much behind uh eliminating
Hamas completely we've heard from the
Israeli Army saying this is their target
of course we have seen multiple Wars on
Gaza over the years this time it is
everything is different um the Army
saying that what is its goal its goal is
to fully eliminate Hamas and its
leadership uh so this is something that
uh they say is the end game of course
when it comes to Gaza it it really does
need a political solution um to change
anything but that's what everyone will
tell you here both Israelis and
Palestinians that everything has changed
here things are unpredictable things are
very dangerous um and nobody really
knows what's going to happen next we are
expecting a ground offensive at some
point now reading between the lines you
heard what safwat said that said there
we've also been hearing this from some
sources that they're very close to
reaching a deal to allow jeel Nationals
and foreign Nationals who hold us other
European nationalities to exit through
the Rafa border crossing with Egypt now
perhaps you could assess that a ground
offensive maybe wouldn't happen before
that gets achieved but certainly the
military buildup around here extensive
the biggest buildup uh the biggest
coolup of Reserve service in Israel's
history um and just to update you
there's been also um two infiltrations
two Palestinian shot dead in Hal o which
is close to the Gaza border which still
gives you a sense that there is still um
the Army still hasn't been able to fully
secure the Border areas when it comes to
infiltrations Steph we seem to be
playing something of a waiting game now
what do you see in terms of Israeli
military
preparations
yes well along the border certainly
extremely heavy uh buildup tanks apcs
artillery yesterday we were at an
artillery position constant bombardment
of outgoing um and you can hear it all
along the border a lot of air strikes
lot of our but it's it's not managing at
the moment certainly to uh to eliminate
the rocket fire that is still
consistently coming out of Gaza to these
areas even Tel Aviv earlier today which
is of course more long range Rockets
being used all right Steph thanks for
that Steph deer reporting that thank